Hi, I'm KC from G free foodie, and
today we are making gluten-free pie
crust.
I'm gonna make enough pie crust for two
single crust or one double crust pie, you
can use a food processor like I'm going
to, or if you have way more patience than
me you can use a pastry cutter or forks
to incorporate all the ingredients. So
first I'm going to put in gluten free
flour blends, you can find one that you
love for baking or you can follow the
guide for blending your own gluten-free
flour at Gfreefoodie.com,
this is Baker sugar, so you could use
regular white sugar, or Baker's sugar is
a little bit fine finer grind, xanthan
gum and some salt, I'm going to give that
all a whirl in the food processor to
get it fully incorporated before we go
on to the next step.
Okay, so now we're gonna add our wet
ingredients, and here I have some butter
that's been partially melted, I know that
in traditional pie crust baking we don't
use partially melted butter, but we're
gluten free baking, and this time we do.
Whoo! And so I'm gonna put this right in
here, right on top of our flour, you could
use a butter replacement if you'd like
to, I would use a butter-flavored
shortening because margarine is gonna
make your crust crispy instead of flaky,
and then this is some spectrum
shortening, you could use a similar
shortening if you don't have it, I'm gonna
put in one egg white, this recipe on our
website has an egg free conversion using
honey, so you're welcome to use that if
you'd like to, and I'm going to add four
tablespoons of ice-cold water, this is
cold water, and you'll see that I have
some ice cubes floating in it because I
want it cold, if you're making a pie that,
you know, vanilla will go well with, I
might even add some vanilla now, you
could add cinnamon if you want to flavor
your dough, this would be the time to do
that.
Okay, we've got it all in there,
with four tablespoons of water I'm gonna
give it a spin.
Smooth dough, and I've got a few more
little crumbles here, so I'm going to add
another tablespoon of water, and you've
just got to kind of judge this by eye,
maybe even tablespoon and a half roughly,
and I'm gonna give this another spin and
then we're ready to take it out. Okay,
our pie dough is ready to go, here you'll
see that it's smoother than conventional
pie dough, and that's okay, that's what we
want. I'm going to take some plastic food
wrap and put half the dough in here,
shape it into a disc, and I'm gonna get
it ready for rolling so again. This
recipe is a double pie crust recipe, so
you've either got some dough left over
to make another single crust pie, or you
can split it in to do and make a double
crust pie, so we're just gonna wrap this
up and shape it into a disc, and this can
go right into the fridge,
or you could roll it right now if you
wanted to. Alright, we're ready to roll
out our gluten-free pie dough, and before
we start this, you need to know two
things, gluten free pie dough is stickier
than traditional pie dough, and it's
actually a little more forgiving, so if
you get a crack, don't worry about it,
don't sweat it,
you can fix it. So, I'm gonna take I've
got a piece of wax paper here, and I'm
gonna take a little bit more gluten-free
flour and sprinkle it around on my wax
paper, if you've got a fancy marble board,
this would be a great opportunity to get
it out, if you don't, don't, don't worry,
about it.
Just put it out on your counter, I'm
gonna unwrap my dough here, I'm gonna put
it right in the center of this box paper,
and I'm gonna put some more flour on top,
and I know lots of people have their own
pie dough rolling ideas, so I'm going to
show you the way that I think it's
easiest to do it, and if you have a
different way that's cool, you can just
fast forward the rest of the video, so
I'm going to take my pin and I'm going
to go back and forth gently, and I'm
going to turn back and forth, gently turn
if the dough starts to look like it's
really sticking to the wax paper, you're
just going to pull the paper back up and
add a little more flour and continue
this way until your dough is nice and
thin and a good size for your pie plate,
hey I've got my pie dough nice and thin,
I'm simply just gonna peel back this wax
paper and I'm ready to go into my pie
plate or your tart pan or whatever.
You're ready to bake. Okay, so we've got
our pie crust right here into our pan,
and I've fixed any little cracks we have,
I'm just rough filling the edges with my
fingers, now you're just going to follow
the directions for your pie recipe, you
can bake this shell as it is, and fill it
with a cream filling, or make a fruit,
pumpkin pie, whatever you want, so you're
just gonna make your pie the way you
always have and now with your fancy new
gluten-free delicious crust.
G-Free Foodie. Check us out.